==========================================
Generating mock data using Mimesis: Part I
==========================================

The ability to generate mock but valid data comes in handy in app
development, where you need to work with databases. Filling in the
database by hand is a time-consuming and tedious process, which can be
done in three stages — gathering necessary information, post-processing
the data and coding the data generator itself. It gets really
complicated when you need to generate not just 10–15 users, but 100–150
thousand users (or other types of data). In this article as well as the
two following ones we will introduce you to a tool, which immensely
simplifies generating mock data, initial database loading and testing in
general.

**Mimesis** is a Python library, which helps generate mock data
for various purposes. The library was written with the use of tools from
the standard Python library, and therefore, it does not have any side
dependencies. Currently the library supports over 33 languages and over 23 class
providers, supplying various data.

Generating data
---------------

Initially, we planned on showing data generation using the example of a
small web-application Flask, but we decided against it because not
everyone is familiar with Flask nor they are willing to change that.
Therefore, we are going to showcase that solely on Python. In case you
want to transfer everything to your project on Flask or Django, you
simply need to define a static method that will run all the
manipulations related to the current model and call it when you need the
initial database loading, as demonstrated in the example below. Model
for Flask (Flask-SQLAlchemy) would look like this:

.. code:: python

    class Patient(db.Model):
        id = db.Column(db.Integer, primary_key=True)
        email = db.Column(db.String(120), unique=True)
        phone_number = db.Column(db.String(25))
        full_name = db.Column(db.String(100))
        weight = db.Column(db.String(64))
        height = db.Column(db.String(64))
        blood_type = db.Column(db.String(64))
        age = db.Column(db.Integer)

        def __init__(self, **kwargs):
            super(Patient, self).__init__(**kwargs)

        @staticmethod
        def _bootstrap(count=500, locale='en', gender):
            from mimesis import Personal
            person = Personal(locale)

            for _ in range(count):
                patient = Patient(
                    email=person.email(),
                    phone_number=person.telephone(),
                    full_name=person.full_name(gender=gender),
                    age=person.age(minimum=18, maximum=45),
                    weight=person.weight(),
                    height=person.height(),
                    blood_type=person.blood_type()
                )

                db.session.add(patient)
                try:
                    db.session.commit()
                except IntegrityError:
                    db.session.rollback()

Now let’s transition to shell-mode:

::

    (venv) ➜ python3 manage.py shell

And generate data. Beforehand, we need to make sure that the database
and the model in question are available.

.. code:: python

    >>> db
    <SQLAlchemy engine='sqlite:///db.sqlite'>

    >>> Patient
    <class 'app.models.Patient'>

    >>> # Generate 40к entries in English.
    >>> Patient()._bootstrap(count=40000, locale='en')

Introduction
------------

It is worth noting that we will be showing the basic capabilities of the
library and we will be using a few most common class providers, since
there are too many of them to cover each one in detail. If the article
sparks your interest to the library you can visit the useful links
listed in the end of the article and find out more. The library is
pretty simple. All you need to do to start working with the data is to
create a class provider. The most common type of data in apps are
personal users’ data, such as name, last name, credit card info, etc.
There is a special class provider for this type of data — ``Personal()``,
which takes the code from the language standard in the form of a line as
shown below:

.. code:: python

    >>> from mimesis import Personal
    >>> person = Personal('is')
    >>> for _ in range(0, 3):
    ...     person.full_name(gender='male')
    ...
    'Karl Brynjúlfsson'
    'Rögnvald Eiðsson'
    'Vésteinn Ríkharðsson'

Almost every web-application requires e-mail for registration.
Naturally, the library supports the ability to generate e-mails with the
help of ``email()`` method ``Personal()`` class, as below:

.. code:: python

    >>> person.email(gender='female')
    'lvana6108@gmail.com'

    >>> person.email(gender='male')
    'john2454@yandex.com'

There is a little problem with the method above, which may cause the
code to be slightly “dirty” in case the app uses more than one type of
class providers. In such situation you should use object ``Generic()``,
which grants access to all providers from one single object:

.. code:: python

    >>> from mimesis import Generic
    >>> g = Generic('pl') # pl – code of Poland (ISO 639-1).
    >>> g.personal.full_name()
    'Lonisława Podsiadło'
    >>> g.datetime.birthday(readable=True)
    'Listopad 11, 1997'
    >>> g.code.imei()
    '011948003071013'
    >>> g.food.fruit()
    'Cytryna'
    >>> g.internet.http_method()
    'PUT'
    >>> g.science.math_formula()
    'A = (h * (a + b)) / 2'

Combining data gives you a vast field for experimentation. For example,
you can create mock (female) Visa (Maestro, MasterCard) credit card
holders:

.. code:: python

    >>> user = Personal('en')
    >>> def get_card(sex='female'):
    ...     owner = {
    ...       'owner': user.full_name(sex),
    ...       'exp_date': user.credit_card_expiration_date(maximum=21),
    ...       'number': user.credit_card_number(card_type='visa')
    ...       }
    ...     return owner
    >>> for _ in range(0, 3):
    ...     get_card()
    ...
    {'exp_date': '02/20', 'owner': 'Laverna Morrison', 'card_number': '4920 3598 2121 3328'}
    {'exp_date': '11/19', 'owner': 'Melany Martinez', 'card_number': '4980 9423 5464 1201'}
    {'exp_date': '01/19', 'owner': 'Cleora Mcfarland', 'card_number': '4085 8037 5801 9703'}

As mentioned above, the library supports over 22 class providers
with data for all possible situations (if not, your PR with corrections
of such an awful injustice are more than welcome). For example, if you
are working on an app dedicated to transportation and logistics and you
need to generate transportation models, you can easily do this by using
``Transport()`` class provider, which contains data related to
transportation:

.. code:: python

    >>> from mimesis import Transport
    >>> trans = Transport()

    >>> for _ in range(0, 5):
    ...     trans.truck()
    ...
    'Seddon-2537 IM'
    'Karrier-7799 UN'
    'Minerva-5567 YC'
    'Hyundai-2808 XR'
    'LIAZ-7174 RM'

Or you could indicate the transport mask model:

.. code:: python

    >>> for _ in range(0, 5):
    ...     # Here # (sharp) - placeholder for numbers, @ - for letters
    ...     trans.truck(model_mask="##@")
    ...
    'Henschel-16G'
    'Bean-44D'
    'Unic-82S'
    'Ford-05Q'
    'Kalmar-58C'

Quite often when testing web-applications (blog would be an excellent
example) you need to generate text data (text, sentences, tags, etc.).
Manually inputting the text is long and boring, and Mimesis allows you
to avoid this thanks to a class provider ``Text()``:

.. code:: python

    >>> from mimesis import Text
    >>> text = Text('en')

    >>> text.text(quantity=1)
    'Python is a programming language that lets you work quickly and integrate systems more effectively'

You can get a list of random words:

.. code:: python

    >>> text = Text('pt-br')
    >>> text.words(quantity=5)
    ['poder', 'de', 'maior', 'só', 'cima']

Generate a street name:

.. code:: python

    >>> from mimesis import Address
    >>> address = Address('en')

    >>> address.address()
    '77 Shephard Trace'

Get a name of a state/area/province, which is related to the chosen
language. In this case it is an state of the USA:

.. code:: python

    >>> address.state()
    'Texas'

The library also has means to Romanize Cyrillic languages (for the
moment only Russian and Ukrainian are supported):

.. code:: python

    >>> from mimesis.decorators import romanized

    >>> @romanized('ru')
    ... def name_ru():
    ...     return 'Вероника Денисова'
    ...

    >>> @romanized('uk')
    >>> def name_uk():
    ...     return 'Емілія Акуленко'
    ...

    >>> name_ru()
    'Veronika Denisova'

    >>> name_uk()
    'Emіlіja Akulenko'

In reality there are a lot of possibilities and you can come up with a
huge number of great use-cases, where the data would look more useful
than in our examples. We are looking forward to getting them from our
users. And we would be happy to read how you are successfully applying
the library to your projects.
